# GRADUATION-THESIS
Final Bachelor's Degree Qualification Work

## Student

Danil Alekseevich Smirnov
## Faculty/Institute/Cluster

Faculty of Control Systems and Robotics
## Group

R34403
## Subject Area

13.03.02 Electric Power Engineering and Electrical Engineering
## Educational Program

Digital Control Systems 2020
## Language of the Educational Program

Russian
## Degree Level

Bachelor
## Thesis Topic

Control System for the Power Converter of a Wind Power Installation Based on the Magnus Effect
## Thesis Supervisor

Nikolai Alexandrovich Polyakov, Candidate of Technical Sciences, ITMO University, Faculty of Control Systems and Robotics, Associate Professor (Qualification Category "Ordinary Associate Professor")

## Research Goal

The development and study of a control system for a wind power installation based on the Magnus effect to achieve operation at the point of maximum generated power.
## Research Tasks

- Develop a simulation model of the electric drive system for the rotating cylinders of the wind power installation.
- Develop and conduct a model study of the closed-loop speed control system for the rotating cylinders of the wind turbine.
- Develop elements of the measurement cascades of the control device to implement the maximum power point tracking (MPPT) algorithm.
- Develop and verify the implementation of the MPPT algorithm for the investigated wind power installation.

## Short Summary of Results/Findings

In this work, during the design of the control system for a wind power installation based on the Magnus effect to achieve operation at the point of maximum generated power, the hardware part of the feedback loop for the speed of the rotating cylinders was developed, as well as a system of voltage and current sensors necessary for measuring the power consumption for internal needs and the power generated by the wind power installation. Based on experimental data, a model of the electric drive for the rotating cylinders was developed, and a speed controller model was constructed. An MPPT algorithm was developed, taking into account the power consumption for the internal needs of the wind power installation and forming a speed setpoint for the rotating cylinders. The developed control system was implemented in a prototype, and model and experimental studies were conducted, confirming its operability.
